# Article
**[Biden Asks Supreme Court to Lift Limits on Contacts With Social Media Sites](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/14/us/politics/supreme-court-social-media-misinformation.html)**

This article concerns a ruling from the United State's Fifth Circuit Court over Federal contacts with social media platforms and software companies. In particular, how official efforts to combat misinformation being spread on social media may be overstepping their authority under the First Ammendment. The Justice Department has decided to pursue the case further, appealing to the Supreme Court for intervention. This sets up a direct challenge/decision (assuming the Court accepts this case) on the extent to which official bodies may moderate content on online platforms, likely to become a major point of concern for tech companies and their developers.

Such an article is especially interesting given the overall lack of juris prudence and established procedures surrounding many practices online, especially when it comes to misinformation. This has become particularly salient during recent years given events like COVID-19, allegations of election fraud, and fears of foreign actors instigating social unrest. Social media and Web 2.0 was very much founded upon ideas of anyone being able to publish anything to a worldwide audience -- little concern was given on misinformation. An argument may be made that allowing such speech to spread is a direct threat to public safety (as has been demonstrated on numerous occassions lately), however it may also be said that such a legal challenge has the potential to place a chilling effect upon such speech, regardless of if it is misinformation or not. It would not be a stretch to say that this would likely have a negative impact upon the industry. 

As developers possibly entering this field, it is vital to understand the possible challenges facing it, affecting not only the ethics of what is created but also more definite concerns like employment prospects. Little is decided at the moment, however, although the highly conservative leaning Court could be said to favor the plaintiffs rather than Biden's Justice Department.

